Okay.
First of all, I interviewed you for the previous book, which I thought was wonderful.
Thank you.
And I got a pretty darn good interview out of that, so I've got lots of good notes.
Good.
So I don't think we have to replicate things that we did earlier, but I certainly am.
I'm just fascinated that you did go ahead and write about the Paris years, and I wonder what motivated you to do that.
I had to.
I couldn't leave the reader hanging.
You know, the last line in the other book was Paris After Dark.
There you go.
And so I had to do that.
But by extension then, we leave off here in 1962, and we still have 34 years.
Not going to touch it.
How come?
Washington does not turn me on in terms of a biography.
I was an observer.
I never was a participant in the Washington scene as I was in the Paris scene in my childhood.
And I had no interest in it at all.
So this is very definitely a story of youth and as much as anything else, isn't it?
Yeah, I'm going to write a novel.
Ah, good for you.
A Washington novel?
Nope, nope.
It's going to be fairly autobiographical.
Good.
And I suppose that's probably all you want to tell me about it.
Yeah, for the moment.
I respect that.
Yeah.
I do.
I think nothing sounds more foolish than an idea for a book.
And why, you know, you've got to put it on the... You write with a computer, right?
Yeah.
How about writing at length like this or with a novel?
Do you think that... Are you going to do that with a computer as well?
Yeah.
The computer is the answer because you don't have to rewrite.
You only have one draft and you just keep touching up the draft.
So I like a computer.
So it is a polished work for you.
Yeah.
What software do you use, just out of curiosity?
I use Professional Write, which is a very old one, but the reason I use it is because it doesn't have all the bells and whistles on it.
I used Word for a while, but I kept making mistakes, and PWP, all it does is
Word process.
So that's what you use still?
The professional write, that's what you use?
Yeah.
Yeah, that's, you know, that's cut and paste, and that's what more do you need.
And it's got a spelling checker.
I'm curious, let's say when you went over, when you get on that ship and you left New York in 1948, what if you'd gone to London?
Would it be, let's say there was a London Herald trip?
Say again?
There's only one path.
Yeah.
I couldn't go.
I could have gone to Venice.
I could have gone alone.
No, Paris is... Paris is... It's in the mind.
It's more than just a city.
It's a way of life.
It's romance.
And apparently it still exercises the same magic on you when you go back.
Me?
Yeah.
No.
Not really?
No, because all my buddies are gone.
Uh-huh.
The period you read about there were all pals and nostalgic and everything.
Now I go back, I don't know anybody.
But that's why I'm wondering, you know, if being a young man of 22 and you went over there, maybe it had a lot to do with youth as well as the soul of the city.
Maybe, but I hit a very unbelievable period.
because it was cheap.
Uh-huh.
And so we could all live there very cheap and live well.
But I'll tell you, if I was a 22-year-old man today and went over, I'd probably have a wonderful time, and I'd meet people that I'd grow up with eventually, too.
It's just that the people I grew up with, they'd go on there.
A lot of them are in heaven.
I'm not going to ask you too many things about what's in the book, obviously.
Quite obviously, it speaks for yourself.
But I am taken by this little comment towards the very end of the book when you say you've had your share of ups and downs.
But what you find interesting is that most of your ups have been connected to your downs.
Yeah.
That's fascinating.
And of course, here you are acknowledged as one of the great humorists of your time.
I almost feel that you have to have the downs to really appreciate, to have a sense of humor.
Well, I illustrated the downs in the book, but being in an orphanage and being a foster child and
having a tough time, in a sense, in the Marine Corps, and not getting a college degree.
And they were all downs, but they turned into ups, because in every case, somebody came along and said, Oh, would you like to speak at our graduation?
Oh, the Marine Corps would be honored if you would talk to them.
So that's what I meant by that.
I understand.
I was kind of amused.
I didn't know until this book that you never picked up French in all those years.
I can speak it, but not to any degree.
Yeah.
And I love that story of being a, that VA story is just wonderful.
The one about the VA money that you were supposed to be getting, and you bribed a woman.
Now, did your buddy actually paint the portraits of those two kids?
I think he had to.
He went on to be not a great painter, but Rockefeller had a couple of his paintings.
Yeah, and he probably made a living out of it, right?
What a shame.
What a disgrace.
This guy was really a VA guy.
He was mean.
Well, I was in the Navy myself.
You know, it's funny.
You're talking to me.
I was working while you were talking to me.
I'm going to speak at the 75th anniversary of the Council of Foreign Relations.
in about three weeks.
And I was writing about all of us.
We were a bunch of bums, you know, near the wells.
And the ones who could manage to get into the marshal plant, as mailroom boys and as clerks, wound up telling, running the
the coal and steel industry for the Benelux country, telling the French how to make cheese.
That's funny.
You've got over 30 books, I guess, to your credit, but the last book you said to me was pretty much the first actual book that you'd done.
And was there any anxiety?
I mean, did you feel in approaching this?
Yeah, about writing it?
Home or this one?
Well, both, actually, because this one you had to follow up on a triumph.
I feel about this, and I'm being very honest about it.
People don't take humorists seriously.
They don't even call them writers, they call them humorists.
Those two books made me a writer.
Be viewed in terms of people like you calling me.
And that gives me great pleasure because I like to be known as a writer instead of a humorist.
It's like one step up.
And leaving home, the reaction was very good because I touched a lot of buttons with depression and orphanages and all the different things.
And that gave me great pleasure because I really, I heard from an awful lot of people in varied parts of my life.
not talking about me, but talking about themselves.
The second book, and we don't know what will happen with it, is full of nostalgia about a period that to us now was one of the great global periods of all time.
If people are interested in reading about this and reading about our lives, I'll feel real good about it.
But I can't tell people what to read, and nobody knows what works and what doesn't.
But clearly you said where... I don't know necessarily if I would subscribe to that where I would not call you a writer.
I would call you a humorist.
I would personally consider you a writer, you know, all these years.
But there must be a great deal of satisfaction for you there in that regard.
In what?
Well, you say that now people are calling you a writer.
Yeah.
And that you have... I'm sort of...
I'm in those September years.
And I think, like people doing their September years, how am I going to be remembered?
And I'd love to be remembered based on these books and what I'm writing now.
Really?
You know, I mean, we're both a couple of newspaper men.
You've got a few more years at the business than I have.
Well, if it hadn't been for the newspaper training, I don't think I'd be able to write as fast as I do.
And on deadline, no less, too.
I've never been... I told people, you know, people said, you can get writer's block.
I said, no editor would allow me to get writer's block.
That's right.
Writer's block is an indulgence.
Were you on the Herald Tribunal?
Say again?
No, no, I'm... That came a little before.
I'm 53, and I...
years old.
No, I'm not.
But you remember we had a chat.
I did an interview with you up here in Boston.
You knew Dick Steele very well.
Yeah, that's right.
And what I've done is basically syndicated myself.
I heard that.
And I'm in 25 papers now.
Great.
And good ones, you know, Wichita, Salt Lake City, Columbus, Austin, a lot of Southerns.
Always books or anything you want?
Well, it's usually a book feature.
Yeah.
And, of course, I also read the books, which is something that they don't normally get, you know.
And I really enjoyed that, leaving home so much.
I really did.
Because, you know, people have a perception of a humorist as always being funny and always, you know, and not having a... It comes around more and more now because I talk about my depression.
I talked about Unmarried King with Mike Wallace.
And the reaction on that was bigger than anything.
I should think.
And so, don't be worried about it.
I take great pleasure in the fact that this stage, if I had it, and I can tell people I had it, and it helps them, that's great.
Yeah, and isn't it coincidental that your neighbor down there on the island, Bill Styron, also had a... Well, Mike and I, the three of us are here, and we all blame it on the water and Styron's water.
Now, is Mike in Vineyard Haven too?
Yeah.
So all three of you guys are, geez, that's amazing.
It's a beautiful day today.
Yeah.
Are you on the island?
No, actually, I'm actually coming down later, but later in the week.
I'm here in the morning in case you need to ask a question.
Okay.
Really, this, I really don't need a lot of your time.
We did that other interview, and it would be silly.
You want me to copy?
Oh, I'd love to.
Want me to send it there on the island or in Washington?
2000, Pennsylvania, I went here.
2000...
Pennsylvania Avenue.
Say again, the zip?
Two zero zero zero six.
Okay, and I'll let you know what papers it runs in, too.
Okay.
And one reason I wanted to do this early is I can get the jump on everybody.
That's good.
I can move this up, and I'll get it in maybe 30, 35 papers.
Judy has some good photographs if you want to send a photograph with me.
I already got them.
Okay.
I got 25 pictures.
Now, if you don't mind my using some of the quotes from the earlier interview.
No problem.
Okay.
That way, because, I mean, you'd say the same thing this time, right?
No problem.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you, sir.
Bye-bye.